[docs-beta] docker compose deployment guide (#23964)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs-beta/docs/guides/deployment/docker.md

    networks:
      - docker_example_network
    depends_on:
      - docker_example_postgresql
      - docker_example_code_location_1

  # This service runs the dagster-daemon process, which is responsible for taking runs
  # off of the queue and launching them, as well as creating runs from schedules or sensors.
  docker_example_daemon:
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: ./Dockerfile_dagster
    entrypoint:
      - dagster-daemon
      - run
    container_name: docker_example_daemon
    restart: on-failure
    environment:
      DAGSTER_POSTGRES_USER: "postgres_user"
      DAGSTER_POSTGRES_PASSWORD: "postgres_password"
      DAGSTER_POSTGRES_DB: "postgres_db"
    volumes: # Make docker client accessible so we can launch containers using host docker
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
      - /tmp/io_manager_storage:/tmp/io_manager_storage
    networks:
      - docker_example_network
    depends_on:
      - docker_example_postgresql
      - docker_example_code_location_1

networks:
  docker_example_network:
    driver: bridge
    name: docker_example_network
```

## Start your deployment

To start the deployment, run:

```shell

> docker-compose up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker compose up
```

docker-compose has been subsumed by docker compose

https://docs.docker.com/compose/migrate/

Reviewer 2: wow i am old

---
title: "Deploying with Docker"
description: A guide to deploying Dagster with Docker.
---

> This guide provides instructions for deploying Dagster using Docker. It's common to use Docker containers to run the Dagster web server, daemon, and code servers. These containers are typically deployed using AWS ECS or another container-based orchestration system.

Reviewer 3: In this guide it seems like the intention is the Docker containers are used exclusively through docker-compose, something that might not translate well to ECS (please correct me if I'm wrong).

Should we set that expectation, that this guide is for running multiple containers on a single compute instance like EC2?

Author: Ah this is a great point. @gibsondan @jmsanders – curious if you have instincts here? Is running multiple containers on a single compute instance a common enough pattern to warrant a guide?

Reviewer: I think the docker compose file is useful because it’s a concise way to see all the moving parts in one place. In some sense, everything else (K8s, ECS) is just an implementation of the compose file (albeit with a lot more bells and whistles). In fact, there are tools out there that let you deploy from a docker compose file to other container orchestrators. 

I have no opinion on if that deserves its own guide or should be treated more as reference material.

Author: Ok I'm going to rename this guide to "Deploying Dagster with Docker Compose"

## What you'll learn

- The different Docker containers that run as part of a Dagster Docker deployment
- How to define Docker images for each of these containers
- How to write a docker-compose file that stands up these containers

<details>
  <summary>Prerequisites</summary>

> - Familiarity with Docker

Reviewer 4: Do any files like `dagster.yaml` need to be in the Dagster project to do this?

Author: Good point - added

</details>

> ### Understand the Docker containers that run as part of a Dagster Docker deployment

Reviewer 4: This strikes me as more conceptual than guide, but I get why you'd want to include it. I think you could rework the intro a little bit to be more specific about the typical containers:

> This guide provides instructions for deploying Dagster using Docker. **A typical Dagster Docker deployment includes containers for the Dagster web server, daemon, code servers, and individual runs.** These containers are typically deployed using AWS ECS or another container-based orchestration system.

Then this section could be scrapped entirely, as much of the info here is already included in other sections. Ex:

> The Dagster web server and daemon are the two host processes in a Dagster deployment. **They typically each run in their own container, using the same Docker image.** This image contains Dagster packages and configuration, but no user code.

Author: 👍

A typical Dagster Docker deployment includes the following containers:
- A container for the Dagster web server
- A container for the [Dagster daemon](/deployment/dagster-daemon)
- A container for each [code location](/concepts/code-locations), which runs the code server for that code location
- A container for each run

The containers for the web server and daemon typically share the same image. Each code location typically has its own image, and that image is also used for runs launched for that code location.

> ### Define a Docker image for the Dagster web server and daemon

Reviewer 4: 1. Should users do the steps in this guide in order?
2. This should be an H2 heading, not H3

The Dagster web server and daemon are the two _host processes_ in a Dagster deployment. They typically each run in their own container, using the same Docker image. This image contains Dagster packages and configuration, but no user code.

To build this Docker image, use a Dockerfile like the following, with a name like `Dockerfile_dagster`:

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.10-slim

RUN pip install \
    dagster \
    dagster-graphql \
    dagster-webserver \
    dagster-postgres \
    dagster-docker

> # Set $DAGSTER_HOME and copy dagster.yaml and workspace.yaml there

Reviewer 4: I left a comment about this on the prereqs, but if these files are necessary to deploy a Dagster project they should be listed as prereqs. For example, `dagster.yaml` isn't included in scaffolding a new project.

ENV DAGSTER_HOME=/opt/dagster/dagster_home/

RUN mkdir -p $DAGSTER_HOME

COPY dagster.yaml workspace.yaml $DAGSTER_HOME

WORKDIR $DAGSTER_HOME
```

> `dagster-postgres` is included to enable using Postgres as your Dagster database. `dagster-docker` is included to enable using the Docker run launcher, which launches each run within a Docker container.

Reviewer 4: Thoughts on including these as code comments instead, to cut down on the explaining?

```
RUN pip install \
    dagster \
    dagster-graphql \
    dagster-webserver \
    dagster-postgres \       # Database for Dagster storage
    dagster-docker           # Enables the Docker run launcher
```

> You'll need to have a [workspace file (`workspace.yaml`)](/concepts/code-locations/workspace-files) file in the same directory as the Dockerfile, to tell the web server and daemon where to look for the code servers.
> 
> You'll also need to have a [dagster.yaml](https://docs.dagster.io/deployment/dagster-instance) file in the same directory as the Dockerfile, to configure the instance.

Reviewer 4: I think we can combine these:

```suggestion
Additionally, the following files should be in the same directory as the Docker file:

- A `workspace.yaml` to tell the web server and daemon the location of the code servers
- A `dagster.yaml` to configure the Dagster instance
```

I'm on the fence about nixing the descriptions entirely (at least once those other pages are written), because my assumption would be that users deploying this way would know what these files are for.

> ### Define a Docker image for each code location

Reviewer 4: Same here, re: this is an H2

> The Docker image for a [code location](/concepts/code-locations) is used for the container for the code server, and for the container for each run launched for that code location.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Docker image for a [code location](/concepts/code-locations) is used for the container for the code server, as well as the container for each run launched for that code location.
```

Suggesting `as well as`, since I think this means the container is used for the code server in addition to those for runs

To build a Docker image for a code location, use a Dockerfile like the following, with a name like `Dockerfile_code_location_1`:

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.10-slim

RUN pip install \
    dagster \
    dagster-postgres \
    dagster-docker

# Add code location code
WORKDIR /opt/dagster/app
COPY directory/with/your/code/ /opt/dagster/app

# Run dagster code server on port 4000

EXPOSE 4000

# CMD allows this to be overridden from run launchers or executors to execute runs and steps
CMD ["dagster", "code-server", "start", "-h", "0.0.0.0", "-p", "4000", "-f", "definitions.py"]
```

> ### Write a docker-compose file for all the services

Reviewer 4: `all the services` strikes me as vague - what exactly does this mean?

I don't think the heading needs to be overly granular, but more specific would be good.

The following `docker-compose.yaml` defines how to run all the service containers:

> ```yaml

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```yaml title="docker-compose.yaml"
```

Show that fancy file name above the code snippet

version: "3.7"

services:
  # This service runs the postgres DB used by dagster for run storage, schedule storage,
  # and event log storage.
  docker_example_postgresql:
    image: postgres:11
    container_name: docker_example_postgresql
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: "postgres_user"
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: "postgres_password"
      POSTGRES_DB: "postgres_db"
    networks:
      - docker_example_network

  # This service runs the code server that loads your user code, in both dagster-webserver
  # and dagster-daemon. By setting DAGSTER_CURRENT_IMAGE to its own image, we tell the
  # run launcher to use this same image when launching runs in a new container as well.
  # Multiple containers like this can be deployed separately - each just needs to run on
  # its own port, and have its own entry in the workspace.yaml file that's loaded by the

>       # webserver.

Reviewer 4: Curious what @PedramNavid and @cmpadden think about including a block of text this big inside code. 

Context is good, but:

- Having to scroll sideways to read it was kind of annoying
- Should this be included in a step in another section?

Reviewer 3: I agree that the sideways scrolling is not ideal.

Having it outside the code block has the added benefit that users can copy and paste the code more easily.

If we have a more advanced section of docs explaining environment variables like `DAGSTER_CURRENT_IMAGE`, then we can link to that and keep the guide more minimal.

Reviewer 2: I tend to agree, if its outside the code block we'll also get spell-check / linting.

Author: Oops this just came in from the example I based this on. I don't think we need it.

    networks:
      - docker_example_network
    depends_on:
      - docker_example_postgresql
      - docker_example_code_location_1

  # This service runs the dagster-daemon process, which is responsible for taking runs
  # off of the queue and launching them, as well as creating runs from schedules or sensors.
  docker_example_daemon:
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: ./Dockerfile_dagster
    entrypoint:
      - dagster-daemon
      - run
    container_name: docker_example_daemon
    restart: on-failure
    environment:
      DAGSTER_POSTGRES_USER: "postgres_user"
      DAGSTER_POSTGRES_PASSWORD: "postgres_password"
      DAGSTER_POSTGRES_DB: "postgres_db"
    volumes: # Make docker client accessible so we can launch containers using host docker
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock
      - /tmp/io_manager_storage:/tmp/io_manager_storage
    networks:
      - docker_example_network
    depends_on:
      - docker_example_postgresql
      - docker_example_code_location_1

networks:
  docker_example_network:
    driver: bridge
    name: docker_example_network
```

### Start your deployment

To start the deployment, run:

```shell
docker-compose up

> ```

Reviewer 4: Thoughts on what should come next after a user completes this guide?

Author: Hmm, I am not sure
